you start with many powers
different powers are used to overcome different challenges

as the game progresses and you "level up" you choose which power to LOSE

you need to learn how to overcome the challenges without the powers that seemed specifically designed to beat them
those new ways are harder and require deep knowledge of how the games works
    probably level dependent, you have to make use of everything the level provides you

different areas are dependent on specific powers to varying degrees, so losing one power won't be a big deal for going through a certain area
    maybe?


question:
    is the point that you need more skill and effort to get through without powers, OR
        that you need to gain certain KNOWLEDGE of the games mechanics 


what makes this idea good:
    
    at the start of a game you want to just mess around and use your tools where they seem to fit, blue power beats blue monster etc
    as you gain deeper understanding you are able to use specific non-obvious interactions

    easy enemies usually become trivial to beat, which wouldn't be the case here
        easy enemies can be a good thing since the feeling of mastery is good. This game wouldn't have the traditional power fantasy goodness

Another idea is that you instead learn to use your tools in a more advanced way, which unlocks new parts of the game.





//
// Color fight
//
You start as blue in the blue village. Everyone is blue here. Venturing outside the safety of blue, the world starts shifting to shades of blue.
Creatures of other colors start appearing and they don't like you. Being touched by them changes tints your color towards theirs.
Creature's disposition towards you depend on how well your color matches theirs.
Full aggression -> will attack if you get close -> neutral -> friendly -> you are one of them
There would be some reason to reach a village while you are not their color, and defeat their leader.

But the game could seem very friendly to a casual player, as they will probably become at least neutral before reaching the village, and won't have to do any challenging fights.
Being attacked would never fully bring you to another color, as they will stop attacking once you are tinted enough.
Villages will have a way for you to fully become their color. "You should really go blue yourself" - Blue villager to player

Combat introduction: "Red gnats are crawling out of that hole, go get rid of them. Try not to get red on you, but if you do come back here to get Blue."

Should stuff fight you past the midpoint of two colors? If you go back and forth between a red and blue guy, do they keep hitting you, or are both neutral?



//
//Design goals of combat system
//
Explore mechanics in a non-hostile / low stress environment.
Player seeks deeper understanding of combat mechanics because there is an implication that discovering more will lead to additional axes of progression.
All combat mechanics need to involve some component that could help with something more than just defeating monsters.
    Moving the player.
    Destroying a barrier. Or somehow unlocking something.
    Preserving a limited resource.
        "If you use this bomb to kill the monster, you don't have a bomb left to open the blocked passage."
    Create a new entity that does one of the previous things in the list.

These effects should not be able to trigger without a monster being involved, since the game is ABOUT fighting monsters, and learning about new ways to fight monsters.

Examples of mechanics:
    Jump on monster head to jump higher.
    Push monster with enough force to destroy something else.
    Monster killed in specific way drops a pickup.
    Monster will cower when bomb is about to explode. Bomb can be used somewhere else in the level and the monster can be defeated elsewhere as it is cowering.
    Frog monster pulls player to it. Put the monster where you want to go.
    Spider monster snares player. Can be used to swing across gaps or rappel down hole. (Not climbing towards source since that is what the frog is for).
        Spider and frog should still require some specific action from the player to avoid being hurt by their attacks.

Level ideas:
    Obvious thing to do is push monsters into eachother. The discovery is that you need to avoid pushing the monsters at eachother, since they need to be used to destroy something else.
    Spider; 
            s
        ------------>
        --      ---->
        a       b

        swing from a to b. Spider doesn't spawn at the right possision, you need to use other combat mechanics to move it.


Player attack
    used to reposition enemies and set them up for killing blows
    some enemies take damage from it, some don't

    Monsters that don't take damage will at first seem harder to defeat, which they are, having to use a specific thing they are vulnerable to in the level.
    But this also means they can be repositioned freely without ever dying, which makes setting up complicated combos with them easier.

    There could be two different weapon upgrades, one that increases and one that lowers weapon damage. New players should choose increased, late game players choose decreased.


    All attacks are combination of pressing attack input and two directions.
        up-down: slam down
        down-up: jab up
        right/left-up: sweep up
        right/left-left/right: spin
        right/left-down: disarm?
        same direction twice: grab

Pickups
    many things can be picked up and thrown
    Monsters can carry things, and be disarmed to drop them